Why bother?

	Ah, hello old friend. I hope it’s fair to call a question a friend, since friendship is really only a matter of intimacy. I wonder if there has been a single day in the past decade where you have not taken up at least some corner of my thoughts. Such an incessant friend, so needy, and unrelenting. We’ve been down many paths trying to satiate your need to be answered, your need to be truly understood and satisfied. As is the case with old friends, I feel that I’ve perhaps adopted too many of your mannerisms and your mode of thinking. I’ve spent entire days pondering what you mean. I’ve even let you creep into conversations with my other friends, and the need for an answer grows only stronger with every failure.
	I first really made an acquaintance in the very early years. You make yourself known best when there is something making me do things I do not want to: when there are tests I don’t care about, when I have to perform actions I have no real investment in, and when I find effort to be just too much at certain points in time. So I would get to know you through the times when I was in my room, trying to live the dreams of other people, making myself act stronger than I felt.
	As I grew older I’ve found that you have a lot of friends, lots of people you bothered with your presence. One frenchman even said “There is only one really serious philosophical question, and that is suicide.” Boy you really drove that man up the wall. Remember that time when I thought that life was about what you can leave behind? About the people who will pick up your dreams and keep whatever fire you lit burning towards the ends of eternity? I really did read too much fantasy back in the day. There was also a short stint where I thought life was about being nice to other people and trying to understand them. That was really the bible talking, but it really helped me question morality in interesting ways later down the line. So I guess I salvaged something out of that mess. I had a stage where I thought life was about hope, and about breaking apart everything to grab only whatever happiness I could. I think I was sad then, and your constant questioning of my life choices made me selfish and very angry. It didn’t help that around about this time we thought that life might be about trying to help the people we care about. Figuring out that those same people can hurt you in ways we thought I was already guarded against wasn’t much fun, especially when it happened a few more times. Well, fool me twice I guess.
