04/14/2017
What happened on that Day?

	It was daytime. It was a warm daytime with sunlight streaming in through glass doors that led out to the balcony and a brilliant Californian day. The fan beat overhead, almost silent, attempting to chase the heat away. I held a heavy book in my hands. It dealt with patricide and Russia, with faith and cynicism, jealousy and honor; my world. It was the world that I had always tried to understand a little more of using the conflicting nature of people shown to us through ageless classics.
	But it was such a nice day outside. I had long forgotten how nice a warm day feels, what it was like to smile only because the sky was blue. The catalyst for this change was a few feet away tapping away at a keyboard, frowning at some probability problem that had to do with efficiently finding the maximum using some kind of random walk. Interesting, terribly complicated, and, according to her, a very fun problem to think about.
	My mind drifted from the book to a conversation we had had yesterday. I wanted things to change, and I wanted somehow to change them. She replied that I was obviously miserable, that I was missing the entire point of being alive. I retorted with a bible parable, her with a story about seagulls. ‘I want to help’ was my stance. ‘But you aren’t free’ was her reply. Maybe that’s why I like reading Dostoevsky, I thought, because his characters seemed caged, angry.
I shifted on the couch, curling into a more comfortable position. The sun sinking into evening… tempting me to close my eyes. My mind was hopelessly scattered now. We had talked about empathy and sympathy. To understand one person IS to sympathize with them! Was her declaration against my point that these were different. I explained that to understand doesn’t mean that you sympathize, because sympathy seems to imply some form of compassion. Yet we can hate ourselves, showing that even in extreme instances of empathy there can be a plausible absence of sympathy. Yes, okay, but why do you care? Because I want to know how we can properly sympathize with each other.  But why?! Because then no one would have to feel hopelessly isolated. Again her signature frown- she was thinking about it. It interested her. A compliment.

My mind kept wandering, always into the same person.

She was the most straightforward person that I had ever met.

It’s so easy to be healthy! You just have to know that you want it and then just do it! Was her take on exercise. ‘But what if I feel lazy?’ I ventured. Then you ARE lazy. It was a merciless response, but fair enough. I started jogging. There was also a laughably convoluted conversation about how cutting carbs would free me from being dictated by hunger, and enable me to pursue what trains of thought I’d want. So of course, I started eating salads. 

I wanted to know what living this straightforward life was like.

	I had been closing a chapter in my life. One written by wanting to be myself in a world that seemed perversely interested in finding ways to kick me down. Such a life, I realized, was defined by staying standing despite everything crushing you, which meant being defined by resilience and a lurking anger. When everything belittles you, anger can keep you up. Anger, idealism, or indifference. But I wasn’t being attacked any more. All my coping mechanisms were doing nothing, all my walls and mirrors protecting me from threats now only imagined, hemming me in. I felt empty, hopelessly weighed down by all these self-made structures that no one could understand. The driving force of anger had burned to nothing, leaving me cold. Why was I here? Who was to blame? I hated it all.
	Well if you don’t like it so much you don’t have to be alive you know! Just get a knife or something and ask if you really want to live, and you do, of course you do! Because you’re alive right?! A challenge that hung in the air, her outburst a little too passionate for the talk we were having. I gave an awkward smile, remembering. A knife, me. No cuts, no dramatic gestures, no plea for attention. Just me, a knife, and a question. The question. I had felt tired, so tired. I said so, her expression softened. We were both talking from experience.
 	We’re here because we want to be. She started. So stop being so damn miserable? I finished. She smiled. Yes. Exactly.

“Arrrgh.”
A frustrated grumble took me out of my dozy memories. I looked over at the small hunched figure with her head in her hands.
“Having trouble?”
“Yes, I’m sure I can figure it out. I just need time to... How’s your book?”
“Interesting, just read a chapter called ‘The Inquisitor’. It’s about how… well… it’s complicated.”
“Tell me.”
I ambled over to the table, collecting my thoughts. Long shadows sprawled across the living room floor, the sun flaring orange for the final hour before it set. She was here for a few more days, then we’ll never see each other again. That was fine. I would miss her, but that was fine as well. We would trade presents, and say our goodbyes, and that was how life flowed by, how people passed by. But today I looked out at a beautiful day and appreciated the sun’s warmth, looked up into a clear sky and smiled at its clarity. It had been a fine day.
