04/06/2017
What are you not
 
	I’m a little teapot short and stout. I’m also not very honest. Note here that I have avoided the Epimenides paradox by not claiming that I always lie. Everybody lies, as much as everybody dies. I think that the ninth commandment was poorly thought out, like rules parents make for their first child- well meant, but without any thought to realism. Either that or God really didn’t want real estate prices in heaven going up. Being priced out of heaven by humans would be too much of a hilarious straight shooting comedy for Jesus after all.
	But even in this sad cesspool of sin, something my Catholic school assured me the earth is, I’m particularly bad at observing this particular commandment. Lying comes a little too naturally to me. I’m not sure why. If I had to guess though, I would say that I’m afraid. In fact, I think the main, or perhaps only reason people lie is because they’re afraid. Afraid of rejection, of being found out for the fraud that they think they are, afraid of reality. So according to transitive properties I must lie more than everyone else because I’m more afraid than everyone else.
	Now that took a rather dark turn. But hey, I could be lying. Because what could I possibly be so afraid of? Why should I be more afraid than everyone else? It seems rather presumptuous to say that I’m more afraid. After all the mortality rate of my peer group should be orders of magnitude lower than that of people in Israel, or the middle-eastern countries seemingly constantly at war against … democracy(?), I think is what the media tells me. My mortality rate is so low that I know stupid facts like that eating one-thousand bananas will increase my mortality rate by 1 micromort, meaning that the probability of my death goes up by one millionth. This is rather impressive. I will soon look into buying one thousand bananas. These challenges are really what makes me feel alive. Thrilling.
	Maybe I’m afraid of being dropped, of people finding out that I’m some sort of failure and deciding that I’m not worth their time. So perhaps I’m not very confident. This seems to feel like it has some inkling of truth. Like many deep seated traumas, this one could even be rooted in my childhood. Those moments when I returned home with a bad grade and had to then endure hours of being shouted at, or saying that I wanted to be an artist and having my drawings be mocked. At the very least, modern outlooks on parenting trends seem to agree with me. Look at that, by asking what I’m not, I have seem to started to answer what I am. Well, let’s not dwell in this place too much. The pained confusion of why I’m not confident is much more enjoyable to read than me moaning about why I am unconfident; a rather drab and common topic on internet forums.
	I’m not honest, but I try my best to be genuine. Oddly, I have come to realize more and more that those who live life to the fullest seem to make a habit of being honest. So I don’t think I can live a genuine life without living an honest life. Being afraid of reality and rejection would mean that I can only run and stuff my head in the sand- an idiom that has its roots in ostrich behavior by the way. 
	But I’m pretty sure I’m not an ostrich.
I think I like this answer to this prompt.
I am not an ostrich.
